So let us see the implementation now. So we have the function
get nth node and we pass the head of the
list and index to the function
And here this is the list and the given index is two.
So first declare the variable temp and initialise to
So temp points to head and now we need a
counter variable
So declare and initialise count to 0. Now we will
iterate the list completely. So use a while loop
While temp is not equal to null and inside first
we have to check if count is equal to index
and zero is not equal to two. So it fails.
So increment count and move temp to the next node
And in the next iteration, the condition is okay.
So check if count equal to index and we have one
not equal to two. So again it fails.
So increment count and move temp to next node
Now in the next iteration, the condition is still true
So go inside and check if count is equal to
index. And now it is. So this is the second
node. So return temp data which is 30 to the calling function
So this is how we can get nth node from
a linked list.
And if the given index is greater than three or
the size of the list, then this if condition will
never be true and the while loop will get exhausted
and it will return -1.